>> Steve Kinney: If you want to,
you can play around.
And there is an intentionally
broken example,
we can kill that Socialite app too.
We do npm start and take a few
minutes to play around with it, but
we can go to, it's under xss,
appropriately named.
We've got unsanitized inputs,
also you can see I've got this query
param for Light and Dark mode.
That seems cool,
who doesn't like Light and
Dark mode hidden in a query param that
definitely renders it on the page?
And you've got this box where you can
just type in anything you want and
post it in the comments.
What kind of trouble can
you get yourself into?
Let's find out.
>> Steve Kinney: All right,
this is a page with no protection.
So,
>> Steve Kinney: It's everything bad you
can do to yourself here.
There's two ways to solve for this.
Sanitize your inputs, right,
which that was the one piece of
advice we all actually listened to.
And most of the time,
should you use almost any framework,
you almost have to opt out of
sanitization, you know what I mean?
React in particular, it's underscore,
underscore dangerouslySetInnerHTML, or
something like that.
If you find yourself doing that, it's time
to ask yourself some questions, right?
There are libraries,
there's one called DOMPurify,
which is pretty battle-tested.
It can run in both the browser and
on node.
And it needs JS DOM, but I think it's
probably the one that most of these
things under the hood tend to use,
right, 13,000 stars.
Could we do a whole hour
of getting around filters?
Sure, but ideally, if we got around
a filter, it ought to be patched.
And that would all be worthless
within minutes, right?
So let's talk about sanitization,
use a library,
you can write a simple
sanitization function.
Honestly, you get pretty far
stripping out the angle brackets and
replacing them, but use a library.
But if you're using a framework
like React, like Svelt, like Vue,
or anything like that, you will get
this unless you choose not to get it.
Server-side, there's, yeah, again,
a ton of different options.
Even if you use a templating language,
like Handlebars or EJS,
most things are going to try
to save you from yourself.
Honestly, creating a few pages,
the quaint little store has a bunch of
vulnerabilities, and
as well if you want to go looking for
that, both reflected and
stored that you can play around with, too.
But generally speaking,
most frameworks will handle
the sanitization part fairly easy.
So we'll look at some of the attacks,
and then we'll look at, again,
these second-layer defenses.
Because, yeah,
even MySpace had sanitization, right?
It was just somebody found a loophole that
was, yes, incredibly novel and clever,
right, and you've also got a ship feature.
So having both a good,
robust set of things and
then also being able to kind of apply,
I'll spoil it for you,
a Content Security Policy to also
protect you in case that fails is,
again, one of those things that's
probably not enough to save you.
Two of them together gives
you pretty good coverage.
So yeah, you can put all sorts
of terrible things in here.
You can do everyone's favorite,
let's put it back on Light mode because I
didn't think about it,
checks go in the input.
>> Steve Kinney: I'm gonna regret this,
I'm gonna have to clear the database,
the most famous thing that
we're all told to do.
Now when it loads in the database,
that's executed forever, right?
>> Steve Kinney: Npm run clean, cool.
The other one to show you kind of what
a reflected attack looks like is where
you would say, we got this Light and
this Dark mode and it's putting
the content in the page somewhere.
Yes, it's a contrived example because
sometimes when you have this many example
apps, you start running out of ideas.
So we're gonna do a theme, and
here we're gonna do,
>> Steve Kinney: We'll do the same
idea of,
>> Steve Kinney: And ideally,
with any kinda sanitization, all this
stuff ought to be a moving target.
The reflected one you can see,
as soon as I don't have that query param,
the attack is effectively gone.
So a lot of the reflected ones, both are
weird cuz they're not in your database.
They usually evolve in somebody
finding the exploit and
sending somebody else a link, right?
The stored ones are dangerous because
anyone just needs to go visit the page.
But at the very least,
they're in your database, and
you have control over getting rid of them.
Theoretically, you have control over
getting rid of them from the query params,
too, but you might not even know, right?
You can do stuff, and you should do stuff,
where if you have a different team working
in the backend of, also,
yes, you should filter out.
But also, maybe you're running checks
on the database occasionally and
through the logs to check for
weird stuff that you see happening.
But the vectors, and again, there are all
sorts of playgrounds and exercises,
but as a practitioner just trying
to defend myself from it, ideally,
anything we found today should be patched
in the sanitizer or else we're bad people.
So we won't kind of over-rotate on like,
how do we really get in there and
stick it to them, right?
We're trying to be like, how do we
not end up in a newspaper, right?
So with that, again,
sanitization, DOMPurify,
any templating language that you use or
almost any framework.
Even if you just wanna
use Web components, there's lit-html,
which is a super-lightweight
templating language.
That's got the protections in there,
use anything,
you already use something, all right?
Unless you are just really
writing a PHP app from the 90s,
there's something in place there.
Use that, do not write your own.
But let's then talk about that
second-layer defense as well.